I've made a few videos now about male
are showing you the stuff that I've
received over the past few months and
you've seem to be loving it you've also
been asking me a lot of questions about
what it is and how to get involved and
those sorts of things so I thought I'd
make this quick video to tell you
basically what you need to know and how
you can get involved so let me start off
with a little bit of history now maillot
sort of officially if you like started
in the 1950s it's generally thought to
be a sort of development from the Fluxus
movement but I won't go into that in too
much detail all you really need to know
if you're interested in the history of
it is that it was started by a guy
called Ray Johnson who is generally
accepted as the first male artist and
his New York correspondence school is
thought of as the first male art Network
so what is it male art is basically the
free exchange of art through the post
it's free that's one of the main things
that sets it apart from some other
things is it's not about making money
it's not about selling art it's about
just making it for the sake of making it
for someone else I'm sending it to them
in the post it could be that you're
taking part in a project or a mailer
call I put out a call a couple months
ago for unusual mail out so you probably
saw that video where the stuff that I
got in them was unusual or set to that
theme
somebody's participating in a particular
project they will sometimes be
limitations about the subject of a
subject to send to sometimes they'll be
set Media postcard 3d 2d whatever and so
it's that side to it where you could be
participating in something or otherwise
you can send just to an individual you
send a piece of mail out to them and
they in turn will send you something
back kind of like a pen pal but this is
generally not that many letters involved
some people write letters and put that
within or you they obviously right in
the back they're postcards but it's more
about the visual element of
and the fun so basically you just create
something and send it I have sent a
mixture of really strange things in the
post over the past couple years
collages and sketches and embroidered
comic books and magazine pages tiny
cards big cards 35 millimeter slides CDs
artists trading cards tags just so many
different things if you can put a stamp
on it and a space for a little address
then give it a go especially if you like
me and you have bad kitchen scales at
home where you can wave your art and
then go and buy stamps without ever
having to take your thing to the post
office that way you can just dump it in
a post box away from where you live and
run away if you're not sure that means
that I can send really strange stuff
without the guy behind the counter at
the post office giving me funny looks so
who is doing this stuff for me obviously
for one but this thousands more aside
from the network that I'm a part of
there's all sorts of projects within
schools you've got school kids getting
involved you've got prison based
projects you've got projects in old
people's homes you've got everyone
everyone can do this all ages all
genders or nationalities everyone so
what are the rules well there aren't any
rules really at all try not to be
offensive and send offensive images or
materials you'll if you know the person
you're sending it to you know what you
get away with otherwise generally you
know try be nice
the only real rule if you want to call
it a roll is it's generally considered
polite to reply if someone sends you a
piece of mail art and you send one in
return so how do you get involved I
first got involved from Twitter there
was someone
I'd seen posting pictures of male art
and I got in touch with them and they
sort of said sure we can exchange Mila
as a follow-up to that there were few
other people on Twitter on one of those
introduced me to the malar network that
I am now majorly involved with and that
is the international union of male
artists this is a website that's
currently celebrating its 25th birthday
it is the biggest collection that I know
of of male artists in one place it's a
free website to sign up to you just post
you their profile on there put your
address you don't have to put your ad
public if you really don't want to you
can wait for people to ask you for your
address and send it on a
person-by-person thing but that I can
understand why you'd want to do that
maybe especially to get started but it
does take some of the fun out of it
because random strangers will send you
art and that is the best part about this
she just creates an account and get
sending and that is how I have made some
really good friends all over the world
and those friends are of all ages
because it really doesn't matter it's
about the art that we send and we
everyone is always so grateful to
receive whatever it is don't be put off
if you're not great at drawing or if you
don't think you're very good at collages
there's something that you'll be able to
make and people will appreciate it no
matter what it looks like because you
put the effort in and it is the
friendliest network of people you can
ever hope to be in the only downside for
Mela me personally is the amount of
money I spend on postage but that was my
choice I've decided to send an exchange
mail at with so many people from all
over the world that I have to be careful
of the weight sometimes I know that in
the UK the weight is all that matters
the size of it doesn't necessarily have
any impact at all so if I want to send
some bigger bracha polystyrene then I
can get away with it because it's under
Bram's as long as I can dump it in the
postbox run away you'll get used to your
own country's postal system and the
limitations there so that isn't a
nutshell mailer for you if you have any
questions at all please don't hesitate
to leave them in the comments and I will
reply to you all and answer as best I
can and I would also put obviously links
down in the description of the network
and anything else that I think might be
useful for you and who knows maybe I'll
see you in the mail
you